---
title: " "
date: 2017-11-18
blurb: "introduction"
---

## Why I'm Starting this Blog

Hey, guys. So recently, I was reading about [Max Deutsch] (https://medium.com/@maxdeutsch), and he reinvigorated my interest in dotaking up some really challenging yet fun projects. Although my fare is very humble compared to Max's, I still think having a blog will help me keep myself accountable (or it would, if I learnt how to make my blog live haha). I also think this is a great way to force myself to write regularly, as well as become better acquainted with basic website development technologies. 

The format will be as follows: every week, beginning with this week, I'll be completing a challenge. The challenges will vary in ttheir complexity and be derived from a variety of disciplines. Because I currently have a full courseload (AP Calculus BC, Chemistry, Astronomy, and French), a number of extracurricular commitments, and am preparing for standardized testing (SATs, SAT Math Level II) - not to mention self-studying C++ - the bulk of my work will take place primarily on Fridays and Saturdays. Likewise, I'll be updating my blog every Friday. The first challenge that I set myself is to clear my Goodreads to-do-list. I had >100 books in my to-do list, primarily non-fiction, and a large chunk being econ/psych/history. Of these, I would remove the ones that I'm not likely to want to read in the immediate future (i.e. 1 month? I seem to overhaul my (!core) priorities every month or so, so that's actually fairly realistic). Of the rest, I planned on reading reviews on websites I trust i.e. Slatestarcodex, Wikipedia Gates Notes and NYTimes Books if those don't work out. There might still be a few books that I still want to read, which I would have to finish by the end of the week.

I think I should also talk about what got me interested in this project in the first place. Without going into too much detail, I'd been trying to read heavily for a while now. I tried to do 1 day a book last summer. Spoiler: it didn't really pan out the way I wanted it to. The reason being to boost my knowledge and creativity so that I can contribute to society in a significant and positive way. In the past couple of months, I've been following the effective altruism community, which has been somewhat helpful in making me settle on a concrete pathway - software engineering - (at least for now). I also have this friend who spent the year after high school to self-study university cs, econ, and electrical engineering alongside other subjects to a lesser degree who is currently in university tell me that he believes he had overestimated the importance of knowledge and that it's better to have practical programming experience over theoretical or 'trivial' knowledge. I had also been thinking along the same lines, and had decided not to pursue research as a career (at least not now) a few days ago, and this provided the impetus for me to focus more on practical experiences over being knowledgeable. From my own reading experiences, I had also noticed I only retained the key mental models or insights from books, but nothing else aside. While reading a trove of non-fiction books didn't seem very practical anymore, I realized that I could still glean important insights by reading summaries or reviews from blogs that I trust. Hence, this undertaking.

Okay so here's how the first day of the challenge went - I woke up, opened my Goodreads account, and then began to 'clean' up my to-do list. Of the 80 or so books (mostly non-fiction), it turned out that I was only very interested in ~30-40 (I actually can't remember so the numbers are pretty cooked). I then began to look reviews online. It was mostly straightforward work, but some books required more time to digest than others (I'm looking at you, [Surfing Uncertainty](), and the Blackwell Guide to [Natural Theology]()). At the end of my session, I was left with 4 books that I was neither i) interested in reading ii) couldn't find an adequate summary for. They were mostly historical books:
* A Short History of Nearly Everything
* Homo Deus (I really enjoyed Sapiens, and this seems to be of even greater gravity so really looking forward to this.)
* The Making of the Atomic Bomb (a veritable tome, this 800-page monster scares me. I don't think I'll be able to finish this. Oh wait, I don't have to worry about it because it's not available in the Toronto Public Library.)
* The Happiness of Pursuit (which I added just today)
